# The AXIS Extension V2

[The AXIS Extension](https://www.github.com/tylernygrendc/the-axis-extension) introduced new functionality to [The Joint's](https://www.thejoint.com/our-story) health record and customer management systems, collectively called AXIS. The scope of that project, however, was limited to front-of-house automation. This new project (V2) is a revitalized effort at reshaping medical documentation within the The Joint's clinic system. It is intended to replace the AXIS Extension.

## How it works

AXIS consists of two discrete web applications: _back office_ and _front office_. These are assigned the subdomains _backoffice_ and _axis_, respectively. Each provides several resources. Back office is primarily concerned with medical documentation and consists of six resources: "Waiting Queue", "Pending Notes", "Completed", "Patient Search", "Task Management", and "Cert-Create" (used to access individual medical records, pending and completed). Front office handles customer management and point-of-sale, which includes many more resources. Of these, V2 is only concerned with "Home", "Contact", and "Tasks". It provides a uniform interface that automates clicks and requests on behalf of the AXIS user, and serves as a bridge connecting these systems and resources. The Joint also utilizes a third-party communication and scheduling platform called Carbon. V2 exploits a handful of its APIs to integrate patient messaging and appointment readouts.

## How it's built

Like it's predecessor, V2 is a browser extension compatible with Chrome and Chromium-based browsers. It is built with pure JavaScript and utilizes [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) (with the Terser plugin) to compile scripts to `dist/scripts`. There are two main output scripts: `app-content.js` and `app-background.js`. The former is injected into the webpage at `document_idle` and includes all client-side functionality. Notably, `app-content.js` will execute in any tab matching the allowed urls specified by `dist/manifest.json`. This may lead to concurrent execution in multiple contexts (tabs). `app-background.js`, on the other hand, is a proxy server (service worker) between contexts and the browser. It is not duplicated. `host_permissions` are explicitly set to allow `app-background.js` to interface with AXIS and Carbon APIs. Except for the creation of medical records, all API actions are performed via `app-background.js`.

Most of V2's functionality consists of displaying, manipulating, or connecting data representing the user and the patient (synonymous with "contact"). These are represented by the `User` and `Patient` classes. A third `App` class represents the open axis resource and the extension instance state. `App` is instantiated immediately and ready-to-use, while `User` and `Patient` require `await` for their respective `static` `get()` and `fromId()` methods.

`App.onAuthStateChange()` is called by `app-content.js` at `document_idle` and listens for login (if the user is not yet logged in). Because username and password is shared between front office and back office, and because their security structure is similar, maintaining authentication is relatively simple. Login to back office triggers a simultaneous login to front office. The resultant authentication keys are stored via the chrome.storage API, and the login process is then continued normally.

Login to Carbon must be completed separately with independent login credentials. At the first Carbon sign in, the user is prompted for both Carbon and AXIS login details via `form` element. Upon submission, the Carbon credentials will be encrypted with `crypto.subtle.encrypt` using a key derived from the AXIS password. The resultant ciphertext (and the corresponding initialization vector and salt) are stored via `chrome.storage.sync`. On subsequent logins, AXIS credentials (which are permitted to `autocomplete`) are used to decipher the credentials and login via `fetch` at `app-background.js`. Authentication keys obtained via login at `app-background.js` are also stored via the chrome.storage API and used for subsequent Carbon requests/actions.

## How it looks

Visually, V2 is a fixed, dark grey flex row, 48px in height, spanning the bottom of the AXIS webpages. Padding is added to `#app` (back office) and `#content` (front office)-- among other adjustments-- to avoid layout collision. For visual consistency and greater efficiency/simplicity, V2 uses AXIS styles where possible-- at least where they overlap between systems. Custom stylesheets are written with [SCSS](https://sass-lang.com/) and precompiled to `dist/styles`. Action items appear left to right within the flex box, with features, shortcuts, and system options clearly separated. Actions are added/hidden based on resource and user role (WC or DC). Most of these actions trigger the appearance of a `dialog` element written with [Pug](https://pugjs.org/api/getting-started.html) and precompiled to `dist/markup`. They are accessed by `app-content.js` and modified using a helper functions `template()` and `el()`. The appearance of these are as described below:

- **Tasks:** WCs see tab separated lists of daily tasks including new leads, appointment reminders, touchpoints, birthdays, and patient requests. DCs see the same with an added follow-up list and visit summary list. A "message all" `button` appears at the top and will programmatically complete all daily messaging if the patient is signed in to Carbon. A `button` at the bottom generates the daily huddle or report, depending on time of day.

- **Print:** A dropzone appears left for patient selection, defaulting to the previous selection or current record. A `select` element appears right of this, above tab separated lists of printable home resources and patient records. It includes options to generate a "superbill", "excuse slip", "record release", or "wellness review". A `button` is right of this and, on click, will replace the `dialog` content with a `form` allowing output customization, as well as a left aligned, editable preview of the output. Print and save options appear below.

- **Message:** A dropzone appears left for patient selection, defaulting to the previous selection or current record. Below is a tab separated list of conversations, message options, bulk operations. Scrollable conversation history appears right aligned, with a `textarea` and send `button` below. Message notifications (only for active conversations) are handled with the chrome.notifications API.

- **Schedule:** Tab separated lists detailing daily appointments and expected daily visits appear left. A `form` element appears right, allowing the user to create a new appointments or follow-ups.

- **Visit (DC only):** Horizontal tabs for "history", "exam", "treatment", and "review". The first (history) panel includes a dropzone for patient selection, defaulting to the previous selection or current record. Vertical tabs list complaints, with corresponding panels containing a `form` specifying onset, palliative/provocative items, site/distribution, severity, and timing/trend. An editable table representing past medical history and medication history appears below. The second (exam) panel features a vertical tablist of diagnoses at the left corresponding panels containing a `form` element with fields describing diagnostic criteria. The third (treatment) panel contains a `form` allowing the user to specify progress, change, and adverse events with treatment. A simplified treatment chart appears within, and response to treatment and treatment modifications can be specified thereafter. The fourth and final tab includes a live preview of the note with a completion score at the right and a set of suggestions to improve note quality. It also includes a list of staged documents to upload, if necessary.

- **Billing:** Tab separated lists detailing recently declined billing, upcoming account reactivation, and upcoming credit card expiration. Right aligned `form` element allowing for manual transactions in the case of network/reader error. A scrollable list of staged transactions.

- **Reassign (shortcut, DC only):** A shortcut removing doctor assignment from pending notes, allowing for access by any in-clinic provider. Useful to correct accidental assignment.
- **Reauthenticate:** A simple login `form` for AXIS credentials (and Carbon credentials if first-time-login or if password change is detected). Refreshes tokens and other authentication data across front office and Carbon, as well as back office if initiated from a back office resource.
- **Help:** A set of `details` elements containing common problems/questions. A support contact `form` element.
- **Feedback:** A list of known problems and scheduled updates. A contact `form` element.
- **Settings:** A link to the extension's settings page. System changes (such as authentication status) appear "toast-style" above the main dialog.

Most of these, when a patient record is selected, will be headed with a set of account flags and, if present, a visibly distinct "areas of concern" and/or "quick notes" alert. During blocking asynchronous or other time consuming operations, the `dialog` element is collapsed to show only `progress` element and its `label`, along with a `button` set to hide the indicator or cancel the operation. For non-blocking operations, status may be displayed via the chrome.notifications API.

To avoid breaking changes, the AXIS interface is rarely modified by `app-content.js`. There are a few exceptions:

- An option to hide erroneous documents in front office (replacing a non-functional checkbox).
- Unchecking the "match subluxations" checkbox inverts its action in back office.
- Treatment details will roll over from the previous exam in back office.
- Auto-populated palpatory findings will be removed in back office, unless the user chooses to carry over ALL previous visit findings.
- An option to "close" without saving is added to back office.
